"""""""""""""""""""""""
WHAT IS A SOFT LINK?
A soft link is a link that points to another file (like a shortcut on a Windows machine). It's also known as a symbolic link.
"""""""""""""""""""""""

To create a soft link, use the following command:
    -   ln -s original_file  soft_link

(Me: Question: Does the soft link have to have the same extension as the original file? Nope! I even created an exe file to refer
to a text file!)

Note that whatever path we give to the original_file is the path stored in soft_link. If we give it a relative
path, it will be that path, and if we give it a full path, it will be that path. If we want the link to work
if we remove it around, we better use the full path.

Using the stat command, we see that a soft link file is linking to what file on the system. Moreover the type of the file is 
shown to be link.

Also notice in ls -l, the first letter of a link file is l, like 'lrwxrwxrwx 1 tom tom 9 May 8 21:48 soft.txt -> facts.txt'

Note that accessing and editing the link file results in changes in the original file.

Note that deleting the link file does nothing to the original file. However, if the original file is deleted, the link is simply
useless and the bash throws an error. Note that this includes removal of the file too. So, if the original file is removed from 
one place to another, the link would not follow it (why would it! Are we living in a dream world?)

Note that a soft link itself has a unique innode, and particularly an index, because it's a different file afterall.

Note also that we can create soft links to directories.

What happens if we move the link file rather then the original file? If we get the stat of the link file, we get a line like this
in the beginning:
""""""""""""
l1.txt -> ../cat.txt
.
.
.
""""""""""""
So we see that l1, which is the soft link here, points to a file in the parent folder. In conclusion, if the path is given properly
to the soft link (full path rather than a relative path,) rest assured that moving around the link causes no problems. However,
if the path is relative, moving the link does cause problems.