In essence, a primary partition contains boot and OS related files (the word primary comes because they're loaded
first by the boot loader.) Extended ar partitions that are used for keeping unrelated data. Hence, for example
drive D on Windows is an extended partition.

Taken from Wekipedia:

This section describes the master boot record (MBR) partitioning scheme, as used historically in DOS, Microsoft 
Windows and Linux (among others) on PC-compatible computer systems. As of the mid-2010s, most new computers use 
the GUID Partition Table (GPT) partitioning scheme instead. 

The total data storage space of a PC HDD on which MBR partitioning is implemented can contain AT MOST four primary 
partitions, or alternatively three primary partitions and an extended partition. The Partition Table, located in 
the master boot record, contains 16-byte entries, each of which describes a partition.

The partition type is identified by a 1-byte code found in its partition table entry. Some of these codes (such 
as 0x05 and 0x0F) may be used to indicate the presence of an extended partition. Most are used by an operating 
system's bootloader (that examines partition tables) to decide if a partition contains a file system that can be 
mounted / accessed for reading or writing data. 

    -   Primary partition
A primary partition contains one file system. In DOS and all early versions of Microsoft Windows systems, 
Microsoft required what it called the system partition to be the first partition. All Windows operating systems 
from Windows 95 onwards can be located on (almost) any partition, but the boot files (io.sys, bootmgr, ntldr, 
etc.) must reside on a primary partition. However, other factors, such as a PC's BIOS may also impose specific 
requirements as to which partition must contain the primary OS.

The partition type code for a primary partition can either correspond to a file system contained within (e.g., 
0x07 means either an NTFS or an OS/2 HPFS file system) or indicate that the partition has a special use (e.g., 
code 0x82 usually indicates a Linux swap partition). The FAT16 and FAT32 file systems have made use of a number 
of partition type codes due to the limits of various DOS and Windows OS versions. Though a Linux operating system 
may recognize a number of different file systems (ext4, ext3, ext2, ReiserFS, etc.), they have all consistently 
used the same partition type code: 0x83 (Linux native file system). 

    -   Extended partition
An HDD may contain only one extended partition, but that extended partition can be subdivided into multiple 
logical partitions. DOS/Windows systems may then assign a unique drive letter to each logical partition. GUID 
partition table (GPT) only has the primary partition, doesn't have the extended partition and the logical 
partition. (me: which is why the boot window that appear on for example a multiboot system only shows the possible
boot partitions, like linux boot or safe boot, EFI Windows boot, and nothing else, like for example my drive C)

Partitioning schemes:
    - Windows
With DOS, Microsoft Windows, and OS/2, a common practice is to use one primary partition for the active file 
system that will contain the operating system, the page/swap file, all utilities, applications, and user data. 
On most Windows consumer computers, the drive letter C: is routinely assigned to this primary partition. Other 
partitions may exist on the HDD that may or may not be visible as drives, such as recovery partitions or 
partitions with diagnostic tools or data. (Microsoft drive letters do not correspond to partitions in a 
one-to-one fashion, so there may be more or fewer drive letters than partitions.)

Microsoft Windows 2000, XP, Vista, and Windows 7 include a 'Disk Management' program which allows for the 
creation, deletion and resizing of FAT and NTFS partitions. The Windows Disk Manager in Windows Vista and 
Windows 7 utilizes a 1 MB partition alignment scheme which is fundamentally incompatible with Windows 2000, XP, 
OS/2, DOS as well as many other operating systems. 

    - Unix-like system
On Unix-based and Unix-like operating systems such as Linux, macOS, BSD, and Solaris, it is possible to use 
multiple partitions on a disk device. Each partition can be formatted with a file system or as a swap partition.

Multiple partitions allow directories such as /boot, /tmp, /usr, /var, or /home to be allocated their own 
filesystems. Such a scheme has a number of advantages:
    -   If one file system gets corrupted, the data outside that filesystem/partition may stay intact, minimizing 
        data loss. Specific file systems can be mounted with different parameters, e.g., read-only, or with the 
        execution of setuid files disabled. A runaway program that uses up all available space on a non-system 
        filesystem does not fill up critical filesystems.
        Keeping user data such as documents separate from system files allows the system to be updated with 
        lessened risk of disturbing the data.
    -   A common minimal configuration for Linux systems is to use three partitions: one holding the system files 
        mounted on "/" (the root directory), one holding user configuration files and data mounted on /home 
        (home directory), and a swap partition.

By default, macOS systems also use a single partition for the entire filesystem and use a swap file inside the 
file system (like Windows) rather than a swap partition.

    -   Multiboot systems
Multi-boot systems are computers where the user can boot into one of two or more distinct operating systems (OS) 
stored in separate storage devices or in separate partitions of the same storage device. In such systems a menu 
at startup gives a choice of which OS to boot/start (and only one OS at a time is loaded).

This is distinct from virtual operating systems, in which one operating system is run as a self-contained virtual 
"program" within another already-running operating system. (An example is a Windows OS "virtual machine" running 
from within a Linux OS.) 

    -   GUID Partition Table
The GUID Partition Table (Globally Unique IDentifier) is a part of the Unified Extensible Firmware Interface 
(UEFI) standard for the layout of the partition table on a physical hard disk. Many operating systems now support 
this standard. (Me: it's the black Window that appears especially on multiboot systems when we boot up.)