The extended file system, or ext, was implemented in April 1992 as the first file system created specifically 
for the Linux kernel. It has metadata structure inspired by traditional Unix filesystem principles, and was 
designed by Rémy Card to overcome certain limitations of the MINIX file system.[2][3] It was the first 
implementation that used the virtual file system (VFS), for which support was added in the Linux kernel in 
version 0.96c, and it could handle file systems up to 2 gigabytes (GB) in size.

There are three versions:
    -   ext2:
        The ext2 or second extended file system. 
        ext2 was the default filesystem in several Linux distributions, including Debian and Red Hat Linux, until 
        supplanted by ext3, which is almost completely compatible with ext2 and is a journaling file system. ext2 is 
        still the filesystem of choice for flash-based storage media (such as SD cards and USB flash drives) because 
        its lack of a journal increases performance and minimizes the number of writes, and flash devices can endure 
        a limited number of write cycles. Since 2009,[5] the Linux kernel supports a journal-less mode of ext4 which 
        provides benefits not found with ext2, such as larger file and volume sizes.

        The space in ext2 is split up into blocks. 
        Every file or directory is represented by an inode. The term "inode" comes from "index node" (over time, it 
        became i-node and then inode). The inode includes data about the size, permission, ownership, and location on 
        disk of the file or directory. 

        Each directory is a list of directory entries. Each directory entry associates one file name with one 
        inode number, and consists of the inode number, the length of the file name, and the actual text of the 
        file name. Use stat command to get the inode.

    -   ext3:
        Its main advantage over ext2 is journaling, which improves reliability and eliminates the need to check 
        the file system after an unclean shutdown.
        ext3 does not support the recovery of deleted files. The ext3 driver actively deletes files by wiping 
        file inodes for crash safety reasons. 

    -   ext4:
        The ext4 filesystem can support volumes with sizes up to 1 exbibyte (EiB) and single files with sizes up to 16 
        tebibytes (TiB) with the standard 4 KiB block size.
        ext4 does not limit the number of subdirectories in a single directory, except by the inherent size limit of 
        the directory itself. (In ext3 a directory can have at most 32,000 subdirectories.
