Let's first make a distinction between partitioning a disk and formatting it. 

Disk partitioning is a useful, yet often overlooked tool for optimizing system storage, performance, and even 
security. Conceptually akin to taking one whole pie and cutting it into slices, partitioning means taking your 
system and dividing it into subsystems that run independently on the same hardware. That being said, users need 
to be careful that they’re not doing more harm than good when partitioning their systems. Think of this like 
having a plastic storage bin, three feet tall and one foot wide. By putting drawers in the bin you optimize the 
space, so that you can group and access items separately instead of going through everything all at once. In the 
same way, disk partitioning compartmentalizes your system so that each region can run and be utilized 
independently, without affecting one another (like having a Windows and a Linux partition.) Some benefits of 
disk partitioning include:
    -   Running more than one OS on your system 
    -   Separating valuable files to minimize corruption risk  
    -   Allocating specific system space, applications, and data for specific uses 
    -   Storing frequently used programs and accessed data nearby to improve performance 

If done incorrectly, partitioning can unintentionally reduce total storage space. Multiple partitions require 
the system to duplicate certain file administration areas, and having the same (duplicate) files on different 
partitions will also take up more space than normal. Duplicated files on the same partition just require the 
system to update the metadata, but on separate partitions you will need to copy the entirety of the file, 
essentially doubling the space used.

We tend to place the partitions that are boot related in the beginning, to allow easy access and fast boot.

Formatting disk involves clearing a partition of information. 

In linux word, mounting a file system involves assigning a directory name to a particular partition in the file 
system, allowing it to be visualized (like say a partition is often assigned to /, and one to root, etc.)
We mount the entire partition in a folder, not the disk as it happens. Hence, for example if a usb disk has
partitions sda1 and sda2, we must mount each in a separate folder (or for example in two folders inside a 
folder called USB)
