One always wonders what a socket and a port is. Essentially, a port is a like a port to a city, a gate, where
one waits to receive new people. A socket is a route that leads in and out of a gate. Hence, a client of a server
goes through a port, and is allocated a socket. The server side listens for clients on a particular port. The 
following is from the Oracle documentation:

Normally, a server runs on a specific computer and has a socket that is bound to a specific port number. The server 
just waits, listening to the socket for a client to make a connection request.

On the client-side: The client knows the hostname of the machine on which the server is running and the port number 
on which the server is listening. To make a connection request, the client tries to rendezvous with the server on 
the server's machine and port. The client also needs to identify itself to the server so it binds to a local port 
number that it will use during this connection. This is usually assigned by the system.

If everything goes well, the server accepts the connection. Upon acceptance, the server gets a new socket bound to 
the same local port and also has its remote endpoint set to the address and port of the client. It needs a new 
socket so that it can continue to listen to the original socket for connection requests while tending to the needs 
of the connected client.

On the client side, if the connection is accepted, a socket is successfully created and the client can use the 
socket to communicate with the server.The client and server can now communicate by writing to or reading from 
their sockets.

Definition: 
	A socket is one endpoint of a two-way communication link between two programs running on the network. A socket 
	is bound to a port number so that the TCP layer can identify the application that data is destined to be sent 
	to.

An endpoint is a combination of an IP address and a port number. Every TCP connection can be uniquely identified 
by its two endpoints. That way you can have multiple connections between your host and the server.


Me: Also, each listening port can be open or closed (filtered) using a firewall. In general terms, an open port 
is a network port that accepts incoming packets from remote locations. You can’t have two services listening to 
the same port on the same IP address. (Me: let's drop the IP address for a second, because an IP is assigned to 
a single MAC address. Does this mean two apps can't listen to the same port at the same time?) 
For example, if you are running an Apache web server that listens on ports 80 and 443 and you try to install Nginx, 
the latter will fail to start because the HTTP and HTTPS ports are already in use. (Me: Can't they time share?)






