-   IP address:
    It's used to signify the devices on the network. Example is 192.168.1.1

-   Subnet mask:
    It's a way to segment a network, so that some devices can't talk to each other, even though they might be on 
    the same physical network.

-   Default gateway:
    The router for the subnet we're on. If we want to connet to a device (IP address,) our machine first starts to
    look for it on the local network. If it can't be found, then we connect to the default gateway to look for it
    all over the world. 

-   DNS:
    How is www.microsoft.com server reached? Note that we only have IP addresses, and the domain name is superficial.
    Hence, we need a global mechanism to convert domain names to IP addresses. This would be done through a data 
    base that holds the correspondence between domain name and IP addresses. Of course, we don't want to implement
    such a huge DB per machine, so we implement a global one and each machine over the net sends requests to it.
    This what we call a DNS sever (Domain Name Server).
    So in fact, if we put IP addresses in the internet explorer, we will be able to connect to serves, same as we 
    can with domain names.
    Once we get the IP address and communicate with the DNS, we again search for it on the local network, and then
    over the net, like before.

-   DHCP (Dynamic Host Control Protocol)
    It's a mechinais for generating IP address, DNS host and default gateway for a machine without having to make it
    unique over the entire Internet, or a static IP address. A static IP address is an IP address, subnetmask, DNS
    server and default gateway for a machine that is determined one and uniquely for a machine.
    A dynamic IP address is allocated to the machine once the machine connects to the net and demands one (first 
    thing) for DHCP. DHCP will then have a database holding the IPs, and reallocate IP addresses once they're 
    out of use. The amount time a computer is allowed to own an IP address is called the lease time. 
    
-   NAT (Network Address Translation):
    The worry in the beginning was that every machine (computer, printer, etc) would require a unique IP address.
    In reality, most networks have an internal IP address ranging from 192.168.1.1 to 254. What happens is that 
    every router that connects to the Internet has a UNIQUE IP address, however inside the router, we can reuse
    IP addresses.