Here are the steps taken to load the kernel and have it ready for use:

Note: We can see that essentially, we have a three stage boot like an ARM system. Firmware, primary GRUB, then the actual GRUB,
and finally the kernel is loaded.

1-  Early boot, POST, BIOS initialization – the BIOS (short for Basic Input Output System; essentially, the firmware on the x86) 
    loads up the first sector of the first bootable disk into RAM and jumps to its entry point. This forms what is often referred 
    to as the stage one bootloader, whose main job is to load the stage two (larger) bootloader code into memory and jump to it.

2-  Now the stage two bootloader code takes control. Its main job is to load the actual (stage three) GRUB bootloader into memory 
    and jump to its entry point (GRUB is typically the bootloader employed on x86[-64] systems)

3- The (GRUB) bootloader will be passed both the compressed kernel image file (/boot/vmlinuz-<kernel-ver>) as well as the compressed 
   initramfs image file (/boot/initrd.img-<kernel-ver>) as parameters. The bootloader will (simplistically) do the following:

    -   Perform low-level hardware initialization.
    -   Load these images into RAM, uncompressing the kernel image to a certain extent.
    -   It will jump to the kernel entry point.

4-  The Linux kernel, now having control of the machine, will initialize the hardware and software environment. It makes no 
    assumptions regarding the earlier work performed by the bootloader.

5-  Upon completing the majority of hardware and software initialization, it notices that the initramfs feature is turned on 
    (CONFIG_BLK_DEV_INITRD=y). It will thus locate (and if required, uncompress) the initramfs (initrd) image in RAM 
    
6-  It will then mount it as a temporary root filesystem in RAM itself, within a RAMdisk.

7-  We now have a base, minimal root filesystem set up in memory. Thus, the initrd startup scripts now run, performing, among other 
    tasks, the loading of the required kernel modules into RAM (in effect, loading the root filesystem drivers, and other .ko
    modules).

8-  The kernel then performs a pivot-root, un-mounting the temporary initrd root filesystem, freeing its memory, and mounting the 
    real root filesystem; it's now possible because the kernel module providing that filesystem support is indeed available.

9-  Once the (actual) root filesystem is successfully mounted, system initialization can proceed. The kernel continues, ultimately 
    invoking the first user space process, typically /sbin/init PID 1.

10- The SysV init framework now proceeds to initialize the system, bringing up system services as configured.

A couple of things to note:
    (a) On modern Linux systems, the traditional (read: old) SysV init framework has largely been replaced with a modern optimized 
        framework called systemd. Thus, on many (if not most) modern Linux systems, including embedded ones, the traditional 
        /sbin/init has been replaced with systemd (or is a symbolic link to its executable file). 

    (b) FYI, the generation of the root filesystem itself is not covered in this book; as one simple example, I suggest you look at 
        the code of the SEALS project (at https://github.com/kaiwan/seals) mentioned in Chapter 1; it has script that generates a 
        very minimal, or "skeleton", root filesystem from scratch.

