Device files are also known as device special files. Device files are employed to provide the operating 
system and users an interface to the devices that they represent. All Linux device files are located in 
the /dev directory which is an integral part of the root (/) filesystem because these device files must be 
available to the operating system during the boot process.

One of the most important things to remember about these device files is that they are most definitely not 
device drivers. They are more accurately described as portals to the device drivers. Data is passed from an 
application or the operating system to the device file which then passes it to the device driver which then 
sends it to the physical device (Fig1-HWToOSAndBack).

In Figure 1, a simplified data flow is shown for a common command. Issuing the cat /etc/resolv.conf command 
from a GUI terminal emulator such as Konsole or xterm causes the resolv.conf file to be read from the disk 
with the disk device driver handling the device specific functions such as locating the file on the hard 
drive and reading it. The data is passed through the device file and then from the command to the device 
file and device driver for pseudo-terminal 6 where it is displayed in the terminal session


-   Classification
Device files can be classified in at least two ways. The first and most commonly used classification, is that 
of the data stream commonly associated with the device. For example tty and serial devices are considered to 
be character based because the data stream is transferred and handled one character or byte at a time. Block 
type devices such as hard drives transfer data in blocks, typically a multiple of 256 bytes 
Me: Hence, we have the term block file and character file. In fact, if we ls the /dev folder we see that

$ ls -lha /dev
...
brw-rw----  1 root     disk    259,     8 avril 21  2021 nvme0n1p8
...
crw--w----  1 masoudas tty       4,     2 avril 21  2021 tty2
...

where the c stands for "char file" and b for "block file."

The more detailed and explicit way to identify device files is using the device major and minor numbers. The 
disk devices have a major number of 8 which designates them as SCSI block devices. Note that all PATA and 
SATA hard drives have been managed by the SCSI subsystem because the old ATA subsystem was many years ago 
deemed as not maintainable due to the poor quality of its code. As a result hard drives that would 
previously been designated as “hd[a-z]” are now referred to as “sd[a-z]”.

$ ls -l /dev
brw-rw---- 1 root disk 8,  0 Nov 7 07:06 sda
brw-rw---- 1 root disk 8,  1 Nov 7 07:06 sda1
brw-rw---- 1 root disk 8, 16 Nov 7 07:06 sdb
brw-rw---- 1 root disk 8, 17 Nov 7 07:06 sdb1
brw-rw---- 1 root disk 8, 18 Nov 7 07:06 sdb2

Note: When we ls the /dev folder, two additional numbers appear, as shown above, after the group name. These
are the numbers we're going to talk about next:

You can probably infer the pattern of disk drive minor numbers in the small sample shown above. Minor numbers 
0, 16, 32 and so on up through 240 are the whole disk numbers. So major/minor 8/16 represents the whole disk 
/dev/sdb and 8/17 is the device file for the first partition, /dev/sdb1. Numbers 8/34 would be /dev/sdc2.





