We should at this point recall the difference between the linux kernel and file system. The linux kernel is what
is in charge of the hardware, processes, scheduler, etc. The file system contains the files that we see on different
partitions. We normally access the kernel through these files. The linux file root file system starts with /.

We can think of the kernel as the compiler of those files that are on the root system. Kernel is the binary
executer, which is why kernel is loaded BEFORE the root file system.

From the Internet "The kernel is RAM-resident executable code. The rootfs is the essential filesystem for the 
system (initially a ramfs or tmpfs,) but more often is used to refer to a collection of files in a filesystem of 
some type (e.g. ramfs, ext2/3/4, jffs2, ubifs) that consist of essential initialization and userspace programs. 
Both are needed to boot a Linux system."

Note the crucial point that the linux kernel (because it's too big) is loaded into RAM and occupies a lot of 
space, which is convenient however, and allow us to execute system operations very fast.

Me: For example, if I run the top command on my current system with 16G of RAM, I see the following result 
assuming almost no other process is running:

$ top
...
MiB Mem :  15775,0 total,  12576,7 free,   1345,7 used,   1852,6 buff/cache
...

So from what's suggested, the almost 2GB of RAM that's occupied is currently being used by the kernel binary.

Note also that a simple $ df -h command execution shows that there's no single filesystem on Linux. In fact, 
there are many, which are independent from one another on the same disk drive. The reason there are so many
is because "Older boot loaders could only mount primitive file systems so the kernel was kept on boot and the
OS on root. One way of preventing some types of failures due to a full file system is to give each thing it's 
own file system. Another convenience of multiple partitions is one can easley backup and restore them 
individually. Some file systems like is ZFS, BTRFS, LVM? are not supported by bootloaders that do not themselves 
use the Linux kernel."