When a simple command is executed, the shell performs the following expansions, assignments, and redirections, 
from left to right.

       1.     The words that the parser has  marked  as  variable  assignments
              (those  preceding  the  command name) and redirections are saved
              for later processing.

       2.     The words that are not variable assignments or redirections  are
              expanded.   If  any words remain after expansion, the first word
              is taken to be the name of the command and the  remaining  words
              are the arguments.

       3.     Redirections are performed as described above under REDIRECTION.

       4.     The text after the = in each variable assignment undergoes tilde
              expansion, parameter expansion, command substitution, arithmetic
              expansion,  and quote removal before being assigned to the vari‐
              able.

Me: So, 2 is the reason why if we say var="ls ", and then $var=x, then the latter is considered as ls =x folder.
4 is the reason why we can uses `` or eval or $() commands.

Me: Note also that fortunately, shell does not have the poison ${${var}} or any other forms associated with it.
Therefore, I really shouldn't worry about double substitution.

Continuing on documentation:
If no command name results, the variable assignments affect the current shell  environment. Otherwise, the 
variables are added to the environment of the executed command and do not affect the current shell environment.   
If  any  of  the assignments attempts to assign a value to a readonly variable, an error occurs, and the command 
exits with  a  non-zero status.

If  no command name results, redirections are performed, but do not affect the current shell environment. A 
redirection  error causes the command to exit with a non-zero status.

If there is a command name left after expansion, execution proceeds as described below (another section). Otherwise, 
the command exits. If one of the expansions  contained a command substitution, the exit status of the command is 
the exit status of the last command substitution performed. If there were no command substitutions, the command 
exits with a status of zero.



