An important advantage of shared libraries is that they can be updated independently of the code generated. If the
code was statically linked, we wouldn't be able to change the content of the binary. But with dynamic libs, we only
use the symbols, which would allow us to change the content of the library.

Library updates are of two types: those that fix bugs or add new functions in a backwards-compatible way, and those 
that break compatibility with existing applications. GNU/Linux has a versioning scheme to handle both these cases.

Each library has a release version and an interface number. The release version is simply a string that is appended 
to the library name; for example, the JPEG image library libjpeg is currently at release 8.0.2 and so the library 
is named libjpeg.so.8.0.2. There is a symbolic link named libjpeg.so to libjpeg.so.8.0.2, so that when you compile 
a program with –ljpeg, you link with the current version. If you install version 8.0.3, the link is updated and you 
will link with that one instead.

Now suppose that version 9.0.0. comes along and that breaks the backwards compatibility. The link from libjpeg.so 
now points to libjpeg.so.9.0.0, so that any new programs are linked with the new version, possibly throwing compile 
errors when the interface to libjpeg changes, which the developer can fix. Any programs on the target that are not 
recompiled are going to fail in some way, because they are still using the old interface. This is where an object 
known as the soname (probably so name) helps. The soname encodes the interface number when the library was built 
rand is used by the runtime linker when it loads the library. It is formatted as: 
""""                            
<library name>.so.<interface number>. 
""""
For libjpeg.so.8.0.2, the soname is libjpeg.so.8:

$ readelf -a /usr/lib/libjpeg.so.8.0.2 | grep SONAME
0x000000000000000e (SONAME) Library soname:
 [libjpeg.so.8]

Any program compiled with it will request libjpeg.so.8 at runtime, which will be a symbolic link on the target to 
libjpeg.so.8.0.2. When version 9.0.0 of libjpeg is installed, it will have a soname of libjpeg.so.9, and so it is 
possible to have two incompatible versions of the same library installed on the same system. Programs that were 
linked with libjpeg.so.8.*.* will load libjpeg.so.8, and those linked with libjpeg.so.9.*.* will load libjpeg.so.9.

Therefore, when we look at the libs folder of the system, we see that we have the following:

    -   libjpeg.a:  This is the library archive used for static linking
    -   libjpeg.so -> libjpeg.so.8.0.2:     This is a symbolic link, used for dynamic linking
    -   libjpeg.so.8 -> libjpeg.so.8.0.2:   This is a symbolic link, used when loading the library at runtime
    -   libjpeg.so.8.0.2:   This is the actual shared library, used at both compile time and runtime