HTTP is a client-server protocol: requests are sent by one entity, the user-agent (or a proxy on behalf of it). 
Most of the time the user-agent is a Web browser, but it can be anything, for example, a robot that crawls the 
Web to populate and maintain a search engine index.

Each individual request is sent to a server, which handles it and provides an answer called the response. Between 
the client and the server there are numerous entities, collectively called proxies, which perform different 
operations and act as gateways or caches, for example.

In reality, there are more computers between a browser and the server handling the request: there are routers, 
modems, and more. Thanks to the layered design of the Web, these are hidden in the network and transport layers. 
HTTP is on top, at the application layer. Although important for diagnosing network problems, the underlying 
layers are mostly irrelevant to the description of HTTP.


To display a Web page, the browser sends an original request to fetch the HTML document that represents the page. 
It then parses this file, making additional requests corresponding to execution scripts, layout information (CSS) 
to display, and sub-resources contained within the page (usually images and videos). The Web browser then combines 
these resources to present the complete document, the Web page. Scripts executed by the browser can fetch more 
resources in later phases and the browser updates the Web page accordingly.

A Web page is a hypertext document. This means some parts of the displayed content are links, which can be 
activated (usually by a click of the mouse) to fetch a new Web page, allowing the user to direct their user-agent 
and navigate through the Web. The browser translates these directions into HTTP requests, and further interprets 
the HTTP responses to present the user with a clear response.

A server is not necessarily a single machine, but several server software instances can be hosted on the same 
machine. With HTTP/1.1 and the Host header, they may even share the same IP address.